for the first time the security Council
convened to discuss last week's interim
ruling by the international court of
justice on Gaza this meeting requested
by the Arab Nation on the council
Algeria it is crucial to achieve a
ceasefire
immediately those that oppose that
ceasefire must ask questions of their
conscience efforts to get a resolution
calling for an immediate ceasefire have
repeatedly been blocked by one of the
security council's permanent members the
US it Ambassador made it clear that the
icj decision won't change that position
we must be honest about what the court
did not
order specifically it has not ordered an
immediate ceasefire it has not made any
finding that this preliminary phase of
the proceedings that Israel committed
genocide or otherwise violated the
genocide convention ition and indeed the
United States continues to believe that
such allegations are unfounded Israel's
Deputy Ambassador went further claiming
the case against his country which was
brought by South Africa at the icj was
outrageous and false but other countries
saw it very differently the Chinese
Ambassador told me the Court's rulings
were clear but could only be put in
place if there was a Ceasar well
definitely uh to uh reach uh those goes
a CE fire is a precondition is a must
that's what we also believe the security
Council should do among the provisional
orders made by the international call of
Justice a call to scale up humanitarian
aid for Gaza but that's not happening
the un's top humanitarian official told
the security Council the suffering is
only getting worse with Israel
frequently blocking the entry of much
needed items into Gaza James Al jazer of
the United
Nations make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer